Course Objectives

Review concepts that are fundamental to success in Calculus 1 and

View worked-out examples that are at the level of Calculus 1 problems followed by working on problems.

Prep course
This course is not for credit, does not appear on your transcript, and is free for CU students. The course moves at your own pace (since you can complete or start a new unit when ready), however, we recommend you pace yourself as you go (perhaps aiming to complete ~3 units per week for ~2 weeks). While the topics covered in this prep course do not directly correspond to all topics in the math placement exam, students who do not receive a Calculus 1 placement should complete all units in this course in preparation for re-attempting the placement exam.

Assessment
This prep course has multiple unit quizzes at the end of each unit. For students who plan to retake the math placement exam, you should solve these problems under quiz/exam like conditions (e.g., no calculator, websites, notes, books, help from another person). You may retake the unit quizzes as many times as you would like however and answers will be shown at the end of the unit quiz.

Scores
For students who are retaking the math placement exam you should aim to earn 80% or better on each unit quiz. Whether or not you achieve 80% on your first attempt on a unit quiz, make sure you know how to solve each problem and try again if it would be helpful.

Academic Honesty
This preparation course is a resource for you. You should not use calculators when working on any of the problems. When taking a unit quiz you should not use any notes, calculator, electronic resources, textbook, or receive help from another person. After each unit quiz attempt you will see the answers for that quiz. At that point you may use whatever resources are helpful in understanding why you didn't get the correct answers before attempting each unit quiz again.

Office Hours
From August 5-22 we have weekly zoom office hours available to you. Please make use of these as would be helpful. We can help you where you are stuck in your thinking. Please note that many resources found online (such as math solvers) are not typically as useful because reading a math solution doesn't always translate well to your being able to do math yourself. NOTE POOL RESOURCES WITH PRECALC PLACEMENT?