Syllabus: COEN 1500

**See all 3 tabs for all syllabus information**

Instructor and About the Course

Contact Information
Name: Nick Stites

Email: Nick.Stites@colorado.edu

Office Location: DLC 111

Office Hours: Monday, Thursday: 3:30-4:30 (DLC 111) or by appointment ( make appointment here Links to an external site. )

Communication Policies
Course Announcements

Canvas will be our central location for course content, announcements, and class-wide questions. I will use Canvas Announcements for important course updates, reminders, and schedule changes. Please check Canvas and your email regularly. Canvas announcements and Canvas Inbox messages are normally forwarded to your CU email address. At the beginning of the semester, please verify that the Announcement and Conversation Message settings under Account → Notifications are set to Notify immediately for your CU email account.

Private Questions and Team Communication

For all questions, contact me through the Canvas Inbox or my CU email. Please include the course number, section number, and a clear description of your question so that I can respond efficiently. I will monitor Canvas regularly and will generally respond within one business day. Questions submitted late on Friday or over the weekend may not receive a response until the following Monday. If I have not responded within one day, or on the Monday following a weekend, please email me again and/or talk with me before or after our class.

Course Description
Guiding students through their first five weeks of college, from their first day of classes through their first round of midterms, the First Year Seminar provides Engineering students with a foundation to thrive as university scholars. The discussion-based seminar examines how students can approach their university education in order for it to be a healthy, challenging and rewarding transformative experience. It is required of all first year engineering students living in the Engineering Connections residential community.

Course Objectives
Learning Goals

Students will understand that they belong to a diverse community of peers, develop an appreciation for the values and contributions of those different from themselves, cultivate a genuine curious and charitable attitude toward others

Students will learn how to build trust and find a voice, how to listen to and learn from peers, how to ask for help and offer help without shame or judgment, how to develop resilience, how to give oneself permission to be a beginner and have a learner’s mindset.

Students will wrestle with the process of developing personal ethics (both what they value and how to live these values), without which there can be no true professional ethics.

Students will build a social network, as evidenced by finding a study group, being known by name (by peers and by faculty), making new friends, and engaging in co- and non-curricular events.

Students will find a voice in the academic give-and-take of civil discourse and inquiry

Students will understand why being a successful engineer requires skills in communication, leadership, ethical fluency, cooperation, and self-knowledge

Students will engage in conversations with their peers on topics related to their own views of education and success, and their role in the university as a young scholar.

Students will develop a common vocabulary regarding the fundamental values and concerns of being a successful undergraduate engineering student.

Students will share common readings and assignments as a foundation for discussions and engagement with peers not in their specific class (their roommates, floormates, classmates in other courses).

Students will be exposed to the unique, layered and complex embodiment of particular values, interests, passions and approaches of a caring and accomplished faculty member.

In addition to the common curriculum, students will have a second foundation for discussions and engagement with peers (each having a unique experience to discuss).

Students will be informed of and encouraged to make use of the multiple resources made available by the College, Engineering Connections, Residential Life and Student Affairs designed to facilitate their overall success (academic, wellness, social, civic, career, etc.)

Measurable Outcomes

Students will identify and explain various ethical challenges, problems and questions they encounter in the course readings and activities

Students will explain and compare how various thinkers/actors approach and respond to ethical questions and problems

Students will apply what they learn from various thinkers about ethical questions and problems to their own concerns and lives

Students will generate a provisional personal approach to ethical concerns and a provisional plan for academic and personal development

Students will identify the skills and resources necessary for undergraduate success

Students will identify the skills necessary to participate in a seminar discussion

Students will apply the skills necessary to participate in seminar discussion

Prerequisites
First year engineering student living in the Engineering Connections residential community.

Required Texts
All required texts are included within this canvas course.

Course Outline
See Schedule Page .

Method of Instruction
This course will be taught in person, there will be no virtual or recorded option. Students are expected to attend class in person.

Student Responsibilities and Class Expectations
As a discussion-based seminar, Students in COEN 1500 are expected to attend class and actively participate in meaningful discussions with their peers. Students are expected to prepare for class by reading the short texts before coming to class. A significant portion of your grade, 30%, will be based on the quality of your in-class engagement and unexcused absences will negatively impact your final grade.

Assignments and Grading

Assignments
This class has two sets of assignments: Common Curriculum Assignments and Unique Content Assignments. Common Curriculum Assignments are shared across all sections of COEN 1500, every member of the Engineering Connections community will complete these. The Unique Content Assignments will be different depending on each specific instructors' expertise. See the Assignments page for more information.

Common Curriculum Assignments:

Assignment #1: Sign Up For Your Major Dinner

Thought Project #1: Your Personal Philosophy of Higher Education

Thought Project #2: Your Relationship to Engineering Studies

Unique Curriculum Assignments:

Coming Soon!

Submission Policies
Each assignment details how you should submit them. Read each assignment carefully and submit accordingly.

Grading Criteria and Points Breakdown
Your grade is determined by three parts: Assignments (70%), Classroom Engagement & Participation (30%), and Attendance (see Attendance Policy, link below).

Assignments: 70%

Classroom Engagement & Participation: 30%

Attendance: Your attendance in class is a major factor in your final grade! Learn more about the attendance policy here: FYS Attendance Policy & Grade Impact.pdf

Grading Scale
Course grades are rounded to the nearest whole percentage and assigned using the following scale:

Table - Grading Scale

Letter Grade
A
A-
B+
B
B-
C+
C
C-
D+
D
D-
F

Percentage Grade
94-100
90-93
87-89
83-86
80-82
77-79
73-76
70-72
67-69
63-66
60-62
<60

Course Policies and University Policies

Attendance Policy
Please hit the following link to see the Attendance Policy and its impact upon your final grade : FYS Attendance Policy & Grade Impact.pdf

Inclusivity
In COEN 1500, we are committed to creating an inclusive learning environment where all students feel respected, valued, and supported. Diversity in backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences enriches our discussions and enhances our learning outcomes. We recognize and celebrate the unique contributions that each student brings to our classroom community.

It is our collective responsibility to promote a culture of inclusivity, where differences are embraced and everyone has equal opportunities to participate and succeed. Discrimination, harassment, or any form of disrespectful behavior will not be tolerated. We encourage open dialogue, empathy, and mutual respect among all members of our learning community.

Please approach me or the Engineering Connections team if you have any concerns or suggestions regarding inclusivity in our course. Together, we can ensure that COEN 1500 is a welcoming and supportive environment for everyone.

Course Plagiarism Policy
Academic integrity is of utmost importance in COEN 1500. Plagiarism, which includes using AI or any other automated tools to generate reflections or assignments, is strictly prohibited. All work submitted must be your own, representing your individual thoughts, analyses, and conclusions. Any instances of plagiarism or misuse of AI will be addressed according to university policies on academic dishonesty. It is essential to uphold ethical standards and ensure that all academic work reflects your own effort and understanding.

Acceptable Use of AI

Generative artificial intelligence tools—software that reproduces text, images, computer code, audio, video, and other content—have become widely available. Well-known examples include ChatGPT for text and DALL•E for images. This statement governs all such tools, including those released during our semester together. Keep in mind that the goal of gen AI tools is to reproduce content that seems to have been produced by a human, not to produce accurate or reliable content; therefore, relying on a gen AI tool may result in your submission of inaccurate content. It is your responsibility—not the tool’s—to assure the quality, integrity, and accuracy of work you submit in any college course.

You may use gen AI tools on specific assignments in this course, but their use is limited to the particular tasks outlined in the assignment instructions. If no instructions or guidance is included, assume no gen AI is allowed and/or ask the instructor for clarification. If you use gen AI tools on an assignment, document your usage with the Chicago Manual of Style. Links to an external site. or appropriate citation guidelines for this course.

If gen AI tool use is suspected in completing assignments for this course in ways not explicitly authorized, I will follow up with you. I may contact the Office of Student Conduct & Conflict Resolution to report suspected Honor Code violations. In addition, you must be wary of unintentional plagiarism or data fabrication. Please act with integrity, for the sake of both your personal character and your academic record.

University Policies
You can find a copy of the University Policies on the CU Resources page.